To begin, I’d like to share
a personal experience with you.
When I was told that I was appointed to be
a member of the Governing Body,
one of the brothers who informed me said:
“With this assignment, you’ll experience
“a great increase in responsibility.
“But you’ll also see a corresponding increase
“in Jehovah’s spirit to help you.
It will not be too much for you.”
Well, those words were very,
very reassuring to me.
And the fact is that all of us
(no matter who we are)
serving Jehovah faithfully
must rely on his help
to succeed in serving him.
Now, how do we show this
and receive his help?
There are a number of ways.
We’re going to focus on three of them.
They are these: Follow direction, show faith,
and use common sense,
or the thinking ability,
that Jehovah has given to us.
So let’s consider the first step.
Sometimes all that’s required
to receive Jehovah’s blessing on our work
is to follow simple, clear direction.
Now, here’s a Bible example of that.
It’s found in Mark chapter 14
—Mark chapter 14.
Now, you’ll recall from this account
that God’s Son directed two of his disciples
to go into Jerusalem and to prepare a large,
furnished upper room for the Passover.
His directions were specific.
For instance, Jesus said that they would meet
‘a man carrying a large, earthenware jar,
and they were to follow him.’
And then starting in verse 14,
Jesus added this,
he said: “Wherever he goes inside,
say to the master of the house,
“‘The Teacher says: “Where is the guest room
“where I may eat
the Passover with my disciples?”’
“And he will show you a large upper room,
furnished and ready.
“Prepare it for us there.
“So the disciples went out,
and they entered the city
“and found it just as he said to them,
and they prepared for the Passover.”
So the directions were simple, right?
They were told where they should go,
who they should follow,
what they were to say,
and what they were to do.
And the two disciples promptly followed
that direction,
and of course, their obedience
brought many blessings, as we know.
Well, what practical lesson
can you draw from this?
The lesson: Sometimes all that is needed
in serving Jehovah
is to follow simple, clear direction.
You’ll have many opportunities to do so
in your assignments.
Follow clear direction,
and look for Jehovah’s blessing on it.
But now, on the other hand,
you might be asked to care for something
that’s far more involved than that.
For example, what if you’re asked
to assist someone
who’s known to be difficult to deal with?
Or you’re asked
to care for a work-related problem
that others have not been able to solve.
You’re the one selected
because you’ve had the training.
In such a case, what will help you?
Your strong faith—the next step.
The fact is that at times we need to show
added faith to fulfill our assignments.
True?
Consider the example of Ananias.
Now, he too was a man of faith,
but he faced a challenge
that required even more of him,
and we read about it in Acts chapter 9.
We’ll begin with verse 10
—Acts 9:10—
it says: “There was a disciple
named Ananias in Damascus,
“and the Lord said to him in a vision:
‘Ananias!’
“He said: ‘Here I am, Lord.’
“The Lord said to him:
‘Get up, go to the street called Straight,
“‘and look for a man named Saul, from Tarsus,
“‘at the house of Judas.
“‘For look! he is praying,
“‘and in a vision he has seen
a man named Ananias
“come in and lay his hands on him
so that he may recover sight.’
“But Ananias answered: ‘Lord,
“‘I have heard from many about this man,
“‘about all the harm he did
to your holy ones in Jerusalem.
“‘And here he has authority
from the chief priests
“to arrest all those calling on your name.’
“But the Lord said to him:
‘Go! because this man
“‘is a chosen vessel to me
to bear my name to the nations
“‘as well as to kings and the sons of Israel.
“‘For I will show him plainly how many things
he must suffer for my name.’”
Well, the direction was clear.
Where should Ananias go?
To the street called Straight.
Who was he looking for?
A man named Saul.
What house is he in?
The house of Judas.
Ananias was even told what Saul was doing.
He was praying.
Then Ananias was told what he should do.
He was to lay his hands on him
so that he would recover sight.
Simple, right?
Jesus would do the rest.
What a great example
of giving clear direction!
But here is where Ananias
needed to stir up more faith.
The man he was to visit
had severely persecuted
the holy ones in Jerusalem.
And speaking to the Lord, Ananias added
that this man
“has authority from the chief priests
to arrest all those calling on your name.”
Well, talk about stating
the obvious to Jesus.
The point is that Ananias had a moment
where he was overwhelmed
by the weight of the assignment.
That’s just what happened.
What would help him?
More faith.
And Jesus knew how to draw it up
in that dear man.
Look again at Jesus’ reply.
He simply restated his command: “Go.”
Then Jesus said that “this man
is a chosen vessel to me
“to bear my name to the nations
as well as to kings and the sons of Israel.”
Now, Jesus added something there, didn’t he?
He pointed to the future.
What was he doing?
He was helping Ananias to look ahead, see.
And doing this evidently prompted Ananias
to show even more faith,
which is what he needed.
How do we know this?
Well, look at what he said to Saul.
On meeting Saul, verse 17 tells us
that Ananias called him “brother.”
His initial hesitation had changed
into putting his full faith and trust
in Jesus’ direction.
Well, like Ananias,
as you face challenges in the future
(and they will come;
they come upon all of us),
have strong faith
that Jehovah sees what is needed,
and he and his dear Son will help you.
Keep the big picture in mind,
and look to the blessings ahead
for your hard work.
Jehovah will always bless
your strong faith in him.
Well, so far we’ve looked at the need
to follow clear direction
and to show strong faith.
Now we’re going to add another step:
Use common sense, or thinking ability.
Our Bible example—Elijah.
In this account,
Elijah has traveled to Zarephath,
a Phoenician coastal town.
What was his business there?
Well, the land was
in the grip of a long drought,
and Jehovah would help his prophet
by means of someone in that town.
Elijah was told: “Look!
I will command a widow there
to supply you with food.”
It appears that he gave no other details
about the widow than that.
So how would Elijah find her?
Would Elijah look for the wealthiest widow
to care for his needs?
Or would he use common sense
and thinking ability along with his faith?
Let’s see what Elijah does
at 1 Kings chapter 17.
And we’re going to read verse 10
—First Kings 17:10,
it says: “So he [Elijah]
rose up and went to Zarephath.
“When he came to the entrance of the city,
“there was a widow gathering pieces of wood.
“So he called to her and said:
‘Please, bring me a little water in a cup
so that I may drink.’”
So then what did Elijah do?
Evidently, he approached
the very first widow he met.
And she was not a wealthy widow,
but a poor one.
In fact, it says Elijah had not yet passed
beyond the entrance of the city.
What does this tell us about Elijah?
First, he showed no prejudice
in following through on Jehovah’s direction,
did he?
And second, he added thinking ability
to his obedience and faith.
How so?
Well, common sense would tell him
to show his faith
and start looking
with the very first widow he met.
Elijah obviously had confidence
that Jehovah would make his choice clear.
His obedience, faith, and good sense
were rewarded
because that widow was Jehovah’s choice.
Now, surely holy spirit guided Elijah,
but we can’t ignore
the faith and clear thinking ability
that Elijah developed
as he obediently did God’s will.
After all, prior to that widow,
Jehovah used birds
to carry food to his prophet.
Surely Jehovah
could use a poor widow as well.
What’s the lesson for you and for all of us?
Sometimes we’re given much to go on
when we receive an assignment
and, at other times, frankly,
maybe not so much.
In such a case,
our faith and clear thinking ability
remind us to trust in Jehovah
and to look for his guidance
as we go forward in doing his will.
Jehovah will always help you dear friends
at the right time.
So then, as our examples show, promptly obey,
show strong faith,
and use common sense and thinking ability
in our service to our dear heavenly Father.
Remembering such lessons will help you
as you support Jehovah’s work
in your respective branches.
Jehovah gives power beyond what is normal
to those who rely on him
and follow the steps that lead to blessings.
And we are confident
that this will always be true of you.